# Microchip SmartHLS Libraries

Microchip provides open source libraries that complement and expand the functionality of the SmartHLS tool. Currently, the available libraries are:

- [SmartHLS Vision Library](vision)
- [SmartHLS Fixed-Point Math Library](math)
- [SmartHLS DSP Library](dsp)

These libraries are currently in active development therefore expect changes in their definition and functionality included. To use the libraries, you should first install the SmartHLS tool, which is part of the [Libero SoC Design Suite](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/products/fpgas-and-plds/fpga-and-soc-design-tools/fpga/libero-software-later-versions).

**NOTEs**:

- The main branch of the library repo is designed to work on the latest Libero SoC Design Suite version, and may not be compatible with previous versions of Libero and SmartHLS.  Check the [releases](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/fpga-hls-libraries/releases) page for older versions.
- A stable copy of the libraries is included with the SmartHLS installer under the `<PATH TO SMARTHLS INSTALLATION>/SmartHLS/smarthls-library/external` directory. The snapshot of the library is taken at the time when SmartHLS is released, while the GitHub version can include bug fixes and new functionality that may not be present in the installed copy.

## Setup

To use the latest version of the library, users should clone the library from Microchip's GitHub site:

- First, make sure you have Git and Git LFS installed. If not, you can follow these instructions: https://github.com/git-guides/install-git
  - The repository uses Git Large File System (LFS) to track media files (e.g., images).

- Then clone this SmartHLS library repository,
  - The following instructions use the command line to clone. You may use your prefered Git client instead.
  - We recommend cloning the repository to a directory path that is less than 80 characters long, e.g., `C:\Microchip\fpga-hls-libraries`.
    This is because Windows OS has a 256-character path length limit.
    Some files generated by Libero project deep down under the repository's directory structure can go over the path limit.
  - Here are the commands:

    ```console
    cd <DIRECTORY TO CLONE THE LIBRARY INTO>
    git lfs install
    git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/MicrochipTech/fpga-hls-libraries.git
    git lfs pull
    ```

- Next, update any existing designs that use the libraries to include the path where the libraries have been cloned. This can be done by adding `USER_CXX_FLAG+=-I/path/to/cloned/library` to your Makefile.

- If you would like to use the vision library, after clonning the repository please make sure to setup the **OpenCV** and **FFMPEG** pre-compiled libraries first as described in this link: [vision/precompiled_sw_libraries](vision/precompiled_sw_libraries).

  - These libraries are also included with the latest release of SmartHLS, under `<PATH TO SMARTHLS INSTALLATION>/SmartHLS/smarthls-library/external/vision/precompiled_sw_libraries`.
