# SmartHLS Vision Library

<!-- TOC -->

  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Library Components](#library-components)
  - [Setup](#setup)
  - [Getting Started](#getting-started)

<!-- /TOC -->
## Overview

The SmartHLS Vision Library is designed to simplify the development of video processing solutions on Microchip FPGA devices.
The library provides pre-optimized HLS C++ library functions for fast algorithm prototyping of video applications.
OpenCV-based designs can be ported onto FPGAs with a faster time to market thanks to the equivalent functions in this Vision library.

Configuring the RTL interface of the HLS-generated Video IP is easy with the Vision library, requiring no changes to the C++ algorithm code.
The developer can switch the RTL interface between AXI initiator (M), AXI target (S), AXI stream, and a generic RAM interface with just 1 or 2 lines of changes.

The Vision library also aims to make the verification process easy.
Developers can use OpenCV and the provided test utility functions to create the software testbench,
making it convenient to verify the HLS C++ implementation against OpenCV reference in software.
Once the software implementation is verified,
SmartHLS' Software/Hardware Co-Simulation feature can automatically generate an RTL testbench and verify the correctness of HLS-generated IP in RTL simulation.

The library also offers RTL modules for interfacing with I/O, specifically the camera and display modules.
The RTL modules use an AXI-stream-based video interface protocol, allowing easy system integration with HLS IPs.

By open sourcing the Vision library, we hope to deliver new features and fixes under a faster release cycle,
and share the source code to serve as example for developers to implement other HLS designs.
We welcome all developers to contribute by reporting issues, feedback, and feature requests (by raising "Issues");
and even better, contribute back new algorithms and fixes into this open-source repository.

## Library Components

Below is the directory structure of the Vision library and each sub-directory's respective content.
Please see the readme files in sub-directories for more details.

- [include](include/): The HLS C++ library.
- [rtl](rtl/): RTL components of the library, specifically the AXI-stream based video protocol interface adapters for camera and display modules, as well as pre-canned SmartDesign components for camera and display.
- [demo_designs](demo_designs/): Complete demo designs working on FPGA boards (e.g., [PolarFire Video Kit](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/MPF300-VIDEO-KIT-NS)), making uses of the HLS C++ library and RTL components.
- [examples](examples/): Examples showcasing the usage of the HLS C++ library.
- [tests](tests/): Tests to verify the functionality of HLS library under different configurations.
- [media_files](media_files/): All media files such as images and videos, tracked under LFS.


## Setup

- To use the SmartHLS Vision library, you should first install the SmartHLS tool, which is part of the [Libero SoC Design Suite](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/products/fpgas-and-plds/fpga-and-soc-design-tools/fpga/libero-software-later-versions).

  `Note: This library is designed to work on the latest Libero SoC Design Suite version, 2023.1, and may not be compatible with previous versions of Libero and SmartHLS.`

- The repository uses Git Large File System (LFS) to track media files (e.g., images). So we need to install Git LFS.
  - First make sure you have Git and Git LFS installed. If not, you can follow this instruction: https://github.com/git-guides/install-git

- Then clone this SmartHLS library repository,
  - We will do this in command line.  Windows users can [launch the Cygwin terminal](https://microchiptech.github.io/fpga-hls-docs/userguide.html#launch-cygwin-terminal-on-windows)
    in SmartHLS installation by opening `<SMARTHLS_INSTALLATION_DIR>/cygwin64/Cygwin.bat`.
  - We recommend cloning the repository to a directory path that is less than 80 characters long, e.g., `C:\Microchip\fpga-hls-libraries`.
    This is because Windows OS has a 256-character path length limit.
    Some files generated by Libero project deep down under the repository's directory structure can go over the path limit.
  - Here are the commands (note the example command below assumes running in Cygwin and uses `/cygdrive/c` instead of `C:\`):
    ```console
    > cd /cygdrive/c/Microchip/
    > git lfs install
    > git clone https://github.com/MicrochipTech/fpga-hls-libraries.git
    ```

- The SmartHLS Vision library supports using OpenCV functionality in the software testbench of a SmartHLS project.
  So we will also download a precompiled OpenCV library using a provided script (see [here](https://microchiptech.github.io/fpga-hls-docs/precompiled_sw.html#ffmpeg-4-4-and-opencv-4-5-4) for more details):
  ```console
  > /cygdrive/c/Microchip/Libero_SoC_v2023.1/SmartHLS-2023.1/SmartHLS/examples/scripts/utils/download_libraries.sh
  ```

## Getting Started

After you installed the SmartHLS tool and Libero SoC design suite and set up the repository as described above, you can take a look at the [demo design](demo_designs/PF_Video_kit/README.md) targeting the [PolarFire Video Kit](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/MPF300-VIDEO-KIT-NS).
